Document password reset for administrators (#6242)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/system-administration/admin-password-reset.adoc

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

==Admin-Password-Reset Jenkins

> As a system administrator, you may need to reset the Jenkins admin password if you have lost or forgotten it. To cover this possibility we have steps to follow to reset the admin password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a system administrator, you may need to reset the Jenkins admin password if you have lost or forgotten it.
To cover this possibility we have steps to follow to reset the admin password.
```
suggestion for single sentence per line formatting, so that reviews and feedback can be provided easier.

> ==Steps to reset Jenkins Admin Password

Reviewer 2: We use sentence case in headings.  Don't need to use Jenkins in the heading, since it is already assumed by the reader.  Separate heading from other text with a blank line is usually a good practice.
```suggestion
== Reset administrator password

```

> * Login to your Jenkins server and edit the Jenkins configuration file(config.xml) inside your Jenkins folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Login to your Jenkins controller and edit the Jenkins configuration file (config.xml) inside your Jenkins folder.
```

* Look for the **useSecurity** option and change it from **true** to **false**.
* Save your file and close it.

> * Restart Jenkins service to apply changes.(This time it will not ask for password)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Restart Jenkins service to apply changes. (This time it will not ask for password)
```

> * On the dashboard click on **Manage Jenkins** option on the left side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the dashboard, select **Manage Jenkins** in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
```
suggestion to rephrase wording so it is more clear/descriptive of where to find Manage Jenkins

> * In Manage Jenkins , in the **Security** section you will get **Configure Global Security**. Click on it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In Manage Jenkins, in the **Security** section you will get **Configure Global Security**. Click on it.
```

> * In Manage Jenkins , in the **Security** section you will get **Configure Global Security**. Click on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the *Security* section, select *Configure Global Security*.
```
suggestion for wording/instructions to be clear, remove unnecessary instruction at beginning of sentence

> * In **Security Realm**, click on the checkbox of **Jenkins' own user database** and save it.You will get redirected to the Manage Jenkins page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* In **Security Realm**, click on the checkbox of **Jenkins' own user database** and save it. You will get redirected to the Manage Jenkins page.
```

* In **Security**, click on **Manage Users**. 

> You will get a screen showing your user name with multiple tabs . Click on the setting icon.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will get a screen showing your user name with multiple tabs. Click on the setting icon.
```

* Search for **Password** section to change your password.

> After changing the password you will can try to login again for you Jenkins and give the username and password that you have reseted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After changing the password you will be able to try logging into Jenkins again using the username and password that you have set.
```

> After changing the password you will can try to login again for you Jenkins and give the username and password that you have reseted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After changing the password, try to login to Jenkins, using the username and password that you have reset.
```
suggestion for syntax

> == Video link:  
> link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_VhOMyWDIcY
> ===Thank You 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_VhOMyWDIcY
```
Thank you is unnecessary in this case, so removing it and the section. Also, the video link should not be separated into its own section like that. It can be included in the body of the documentation towards the end, or towards the beginning where it may be more useful. The video can help users _before_ they read through all of the documentation, so having it towards the top of the page/above the page fold, would be beneficial.

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Reset Jenkins administrator password

As a system administrator, you can reset the Jenkins admin password.

> In case you have forgotten or lost the password, this page provides instructions to reset the admin password.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In case you have forgotten or lost the password, this page provides instructions on how you can reset the admin password.
```

> == Reset administrator password

Author: @kmartens27 Actually I haven't used the .adoc file before, so was unaware. Thanks for the suggestions.

. Login to your Jenkins controller and edit the Jenkins configuration file (config.xml) inside your Jenkins folder.
. Look for the **useSecurity** option and change it from **true** to **false**.
. Save your file and close it.

> . Restart Jenkins service to apply changes. (This time it will not ask for password)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Restart Jenkins service to apply changes. (This time it will not ask for password.)
```

. On the dashboard, click on **Manage Jenkins** in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
. In Manage Jenkins, in the **Security** section you will get **Configure Global Security**. Click on it.
. In **Security Realm**, click on the checkbox of **Jenkins' own user database** and save it. You will get redirected to the Manage Jenkins page.

> . In **Security**, click on **Manage Users**. 

Reviewer 5: Did you watch the video you added at the bottom of the page? It would be beneficial if the steps written down here align with the steps shown in the video.
Currently, that's not the case.

Author: @NotMyFault Actually I have used multiple resources to know how to reset the password. So that's why it is not aligning with the video. I used the simplest way in the documentation. The video link that I have included is just for the sake that the YouTube Channel is frequently sharing information about Jenkins usage and contribution. That's pretty much the case.

> * Login to your Jenkins controller and edit the Jenkins configuration file (config.xml) inside your Jenkins folder.
> * Look for the **useSecurity** option and change it from **true** to **false**.
> * Save your file and close it.
> * Restart Jenkins service to apply changes. (This time it will not ask for password)
> * On the dashboard, click on **Manage Jenkins** in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
> * In Manage Jenkins, in the **Security** section you will get **Configure Global Security**. Click on it.
> * In **Security Realm**, click on the checkbox of **Jenkins' own user database** and save it. You will get redirected to the Manage Jenkins page.
> * In **Security**, click on **Manage Users**. 
> 
> You will get a screen showing your user name with multiple tabs. Click on the setting icon.
> * Search for **Password** section to change your password.
> After changing the password you will be able to try logging into Jenkins again using the username and password that you have set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sign in to your Jenkins controller and edit the Jenkins configuration file (config.xml) inside your Jenkins folder.
* Look for the *useSecurity* option and change it from *true* to *false*.
* Save your file and close it.
* Restart the Jenkins service to apply your changes, and you can sign in without being asked for a password.
* On the dashboard, select *Manage Jenkins* in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
* On the *Manage Jenkins* page, under *Security*, select *Configure Global Security*.
* In the *Security Realm* dropdown, select *Jenkins' own user database* and save.
* From the *Manage Jenkins* page, select *Manage Users* under *Security*.
* Select the gear icon to navigate to your user configuration page.
* Navigate to the *Password* section to change your password.
* Select *Apply* and then *Save*,  to save your changes and go back to the user *Status* page.

After changing the password, you can try logging into Jenkins again using the username and updated password.
```
Suggestion to make the instructions a bit more clear/direct.

Also, if these are the ordered steps to take, would it make more sense to user an [ordered list formatting](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/lists/ordered/)?
